Known for: monsters of all kinds, byeshk ore.

Droaam is the nation of monsters. While claimed as part of the Kingdom of Galifar, and traditionally Breland's western frontier, the region was truly never actually controlled by its forces, and 11 years ago, a coven of hags called the Daughters of Sora Kell seized power and declared the region an independent nation - one that would welcome all so-called "monstrous" peoples.

Each of the Daughters is a fearsome creature of folk-tales in her own right, with stories about them told to frighten children across Khorvaire. Stories of Maenya tell of her brute strength, breaking down the walls and barricades of homes to eat the children hiding inside. Stories of Katra tell of her menacing innocent victims, but with the hero triumphing in the end - until suddenly, at the last moment, the story turning tragic, and Katra emerging victorious. Stories of Teraza tell of desperate people coming to her for prophesies of the future, which lead them to fates they did not expect.

They have declared Droaam to be a home to all those shunned by greater Khorvari society - orcs, gnolls, goblins, ogres, trolls, minotaurs, medusas, among others, make up their swelling population. The Sisters direct the magical powers of their residents for nation-building, such as using the ogre's strength for construction work, and distribute regenerating troll meat as rations.

However, while the vision of the Sisters is ambitious, most of the peoples who migrate to Droaam have little cultural knowledge of nation-building, and many have spent their existence living lives of conflict and violence, and most outside observers believe the experiment will not last. Furthermore, Droaam was *not* recognized by the Treaty of Thronehold, and so diplomatic relationships and trade with other nations is not established. Officially, Breland considers the region its "western frontier", though the natural barrier of the Greywall Mountains provides a natural barrier between them.

The Greywall Mountains are one of the few places where byeshk ore can be mined - this rare mineral has magical properties that are especially powerful against the daelkyr and all other beings of madness from Xoriat.