The Planes of Existence in most D&D settings follow the "Great Wheel" concept, where most planes are themed to specific alignments or concepts - e.g. the Abyss is the plane of Chaotic Evil and thus home to demons, while the Elemental Plane of Fire is the plane of all things on fire.

Eberron is quite different, but a few things are the same:
The "material plane" is the normal world, and like all other settings, has two affiliated planes called the Ethereal Plane and the Shadow Plane, which are more like strange reflections of the material world, as opposed to totally unique places like the other planes.
The Astral Plane, or Astral Sea, is the blank grey void that exists between all planes. It is the space between the planes, but some beings live within it.

The basic concept of the Planes is the same. They're otherworldly places associated with certain concepts, and they can have their own rules concerning time and gravity, environments, and sometimes can even be shaped directly by the thoughts of beings within them.

The differences are: in the Eberron setting, the planes *orbit* the material plane. When they are close to Eberron, they are *coterminous*, and the barriers between the worlds grows thin. The idea presented in *A Midsummer Night's Dream* of the veil between the human and faerie worlds is the basic idea. When the planes are at their most distant, they are *remote*, and their influence on the world is diminished, and it can be even more difficult to travel there!

The planes of Eberron also tend to represent more metaphorical concepts than other D&D settings. While Fernia, the Sea of Fire, bears resemblance to the standard Elemental Plane of Fire, it is not quite the same; Fernia represents the *concept* of fire and burning - Fernia represents light, new passions, industry, destruction, and most importantly, *change.*

Beings of many kinds can overlap on the planes - Daanvi is the plane of law, and thus is home to the Modrons, but also of Archons as well as Devils, as they are all creatures of Law expressed differently. Even if they are the same "monster", however, beings from different planes are entirely distinct things from their counterparts on another plane. For example, a Pit Fiend (a devil) from Daanvi might generally look and act like a Pit Fiend from Fernia, but they are ontologically entirely unrelated to one another and tend to represent different ideas. A Pit Fiend from Daanvi, being an expression of the Plane of Law, represents tyranny and the oppressive power of legally-enforced inequality. A Pit Fiend from Fernia represents systematic destruction; burning down systems and infrastructure to cause pain and devastation to others.