
Dragonshards are translucent stones with magical properties. These properties are the foundation upon which all modern magical technology is based - any given magic item is made of or contains dragonshards, they are necessary for the binding of elementals that power the lightning rails and other technologies, and they empower the magic of dragonmarks that allow the Great Houses to accomplish their wonders.

Any given magic item or object you possess likely is made of dragonshards, at least in part, and most commonly Eberron dragonshards.

There are three types:
* **Eberron dragonshards** are found within egg-shaped stones that are found beneath loose topsoil or in watery muck in swamps, and in general seem to be found in places of vibrant and new natural growth (such as swamps, jungles, and virgin forests, but not in farmland). While most commonly found in frontier regions like Q'Barra and the Shadow Marches, they are nonetheless the easiest to acquire and the most common type. They are used in the widest variety of functions, being the basis for most magic items, or as spell components
	* Any spell component that has a cost and is consumed by the spell can instead be fulfilled with an Eberron dragonshard of the same value. For example, the *revivify* spell can utilize Eberron dragonshards worth 300gp rather than requiring diamonds.
	* A spell component that has a cost and is *not* consumed by the spell can be substituted with an Eberron dragonshard, but it must be calibrated to that purpose (*meaning you can't double up; this is intended to be a flavorful element*)
* **Siberys dragonshards** are golden in color and rain down from the Ring of Siberys above the planet's equator. Thus, most fall into the sea, and the rest fall only in equatorial regions - the northern reaches of Xen'drik, parts of Aerenal, and Argonnessen, each of which is more inaccessible to Khorvari prospectors than the last. They are thus the rarest of the three types, but are highly prized by the Dragonmarked Houses for their ability to amplify the power of their Marks, particularly in the secretive "test of Siberys" some of them undergo.
* **Khyber dragonshards** are dark blue or black, and grow within deep underground caverns - curiously, however, they are not typically found *within* the realms of Khyber (such as that can be determined when spelunking), but along its borders. They are thus more commonly available than Siberys shards, but are far more dangerous to obtain due to the many deadly dangers lurking in Khyber. The shards are useful for binding and abjuration magics, and are thus essential for the craft of elemental binding, which allows for the creation of the most powerful magical technologies such as the lightning rail and airships.