After the Progenitor Dragon Khyber slew her brother Siberys, her sister Eberron wrapped her body around Khyber and trapped her within herself. Her body is said to have become the world you live on today.

The realm referred to as "Eberron" includes the land, but also the seas and sky. All mortal things that live on her surface are "Eberron's children", from plants and insects all the way up to the dragons.

Eberron is an Earth-like planet with five continents and two polar ice caps.
* **Khorvaire** is in the northern hemisphere, and is where modern humanoid society lives, and is therefore the primary setting of most games.
* **Sarlona** is in the northern hemisphere. It is where humans originated and migrated from, but is quite distant and does not have major ongoing relationships with the people of Khorvaire. It is mostly ruled by a powerful theocratic empire named Riedra. The most significant impact of Riedra and Sarlona on daily life in Khorvaire are the people called the **kalashtar**, who are an oppressed minority who have migrated to Khorvaire as refugees for many centuries.
* **Argonnessen** is in the southern hemisphere and opposite the globe from Khorvaire. It is the home of the dragons, and while dragon-worshipping barbarian tribes patrol its coastlines, the dragons do not allow outsiders to venture into the continent. Dragons are the oldest mortal civilization on the planet, and their magic is ancient and powerful.
* **Xen'drik** is in the southern hemisphere. It was once the home of a mighty empire ruled by Giants, but suffered an apocalypse, and the continent has been magically broken and, some say, cursed. It is a mysterious land of thick jungle, vast desert, ancient ruins, and other places of adventure - but it actively resists being mapped and settled, and no civilization larger than a city-state has been established for milennia.
* **Aerenal** is an island-continent southeast of Khorvaire. Elves originated as slaves to the Giants of Xen'drik, and when many of them escaped, they founded their first civilization on Aerenal. The society preserve their wisest leaders with necromancy, worshipping them as living (that is, undead) gods known as the Undying Court. Elves further migrated to Khorvaire and founded the land of Valenar, so most modern Khorvari elves are culturally distinct from the Aerenali.

Eberron is orbited by twelve moons. Anything that may occur "when the moon is full" occurs when *any* of the twelve moons are full.